>> Steve Kinney: All right, cool, so
let's take a look, what do we find?
Do we have any first noticings
from running some of the tests?
>> Steve Kinney: Anything we noticed,
we can do some of it together.
We saw that when we deleted point x,
it was way slower than deleting point y.
It was kinda hard to triangulate whyy,
cuz why is one of these
slower than the other, right?
But when we do it with three,
we can kinda like figure out,
one of this is not like the other, and
figure out which of
the three is the oddball.
Is deleting x, the first one,
the oddball, or is deleting y,
the second one, the oddball?
But we don't know, but when we have three,
you can figure out who's wrong.
So let's go ahead,
let's try it out, let me go ahead.
I have Point (2, 4, 6),
I've got my constructor.
Let me go ahead and save it and run it.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, so
deleting x was definitely still slow,
that hasn't changed.
>> Steve Kinney: Deleting y was
fast before, it's now slow.
>> Steve Kinney: Deleting z,
>> Steve Kinney: Is,
again, fast again,right?
So before, when we only had x and y,
>> Steve Kinney: x was slow,
y was about the same as everything else.
When we added z, z was fast and
the other two were slow.
Are we ready to make a hypothesis yet?
Which is it, that x was slow, or
that y was suspiciously fast when we
first looked at it, and now z is?
Right, seems to me that if we
delete the last one, we're okay.
If we delete any of the first or
second ones,
we all of sudden have gotten a lot slower,
is that fair?
Right, interesting, right,
it shouldn't really matter.
It actually, just fun historical fact, it
used to be, never delete anything because
deleting any of the properties
would have slowed the object down.
Right, and that was true, before Turbofan,
there was Crankshaft, and
Crankshaft would get slower if you
deleted any of the properties.
Turbofan is slightly smart enough
to know if you delete the last one,
which a lot of times is the one you're
deleting, it's optimized for that case.
But deleting properties is slow,
which is like, who cares?
JavaScript's a dynamic language,
right, it shouldn't really matter.
We have some amount of insight
to know that strings and
numbers definitely made a difference.
We saw Turbofan be able to mark
something for optimization, and
then have to deoptimize it, right?
So it's almost like there's
a type system in place.
I don't see a type system, right, I'm not
writing flow or reason ML or typescript.
But I'm definitely feeling
some of the effects of this.
But an object that could have all
these different properties on
it is different than something
that's a string or a number.
Right, so I'm sensing this from
doing some of the science,
but I don't totally know
what's happening yet.
Let me do another little experiment, and
we're gonna take a bunch of objects.
We're gonna go back to
addition a little bit,
cuz who doesn't like some
good old fashioned addition?
We'll go ahead,
we'll take a bunch of objects.
We'll say const objects, and I'm just
gonna make a bunch of the same objects.
I'll say a is 1, a is 2,
a is 3, a is 4, so these are very
similar looking objects.
Right, they all have an a property,
that a property is always a number.
Right, hopefully you're making some
assumptions about what's gonna
happen here.
Right, it's like, similar things good,
different things bad.
Right, so take that and
we'll go ahead and say, let sum = 0.
We'll get one of the objects.
>> Steve Kinney: This will effectively
just, iterations move through it.
It'll effectively end up being 0,
1, 2, 3, which'll be the indices.
So we're just gonna rotate
through the objects with this.
>> Steve Kinney: And
we'll say sum equals sum
plus,
>> Steve Kinney: The a property
of that object.
Right, so go through, for
however many times, right,
we're gonna go through the objects.
We're gonna add the a property,
we're gonna add the a property,
over and over and over again.
Let's see what we get.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
took about nine milliseconds,
I feel confident we can go back up to 1E7.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, 26, right,
clearly scaling pretty well here,
okay, not bad.
Let's go ahead, we're gonna keep
an a property on all of them,
cuz this code would theoretically,
I don't even know what happens if we lose.
I guess undefined gets coerced into NAN,
nobody wants to go down that road.
So we'll keep an a property
on all of them.
But maybe sometimes we added
some stuff to an object,
sometimes we deleted some stuff from
an object, things happen in JavaScript.
Right, our code's a wild, wild place,
things are changing all the time.
We've got back different
data from the database, and
some of them have these properties,
some of them don't.
So we'll go ahead and say,
give this one a b property.
>> Steve Kinney: Here we'll say,
>> Steve Kinney: Let's
make them different.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
we'll run this code again.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, that's,
again, a few milliseconds, but
that's definitely a noticeable difference,
that's 20% longer, right?